README.md, before:

Introduction
============

This is *libX++*, a library providing an object oriented C++ API wrapper for
parts of the X11 API. It is intended for low level programming against the X
server on Linux systems.

Repository Name
===============

Since GitHub is pretty restrictive regarding characters in repository names,
this repository cannot be named *libX++*, but is named libXpp as a fallback
instead.

Design Goals
============

This library aims to provide a thin object oriented wrapper on top of libX11
and some other parts of the X11 client libraries. The library is implemented
using modern C++ features similar to the style found in
[libcosmos](https://github.com/gerstner-hub/libcosmos/), which is also a
dependency of *libX++*.

Scope
=====

The scope of *libX++* is currently not well defined. This stems from the fact
that it has only been expanded so far as to enable a few specific applications
and was extracted from [xwmfs](https://github.com/gerstner-hub/xwmfs/) to
make this code reusable. I don't plan to cover all of libX11 just for the fun
of it. If you need a few extra features to make *libX++* useful for you, I'm
open for pull requests or feature requests for expanding the feature set.

Key Features
============

The library currently supports a variety of different API areas, the most
notable being:

- Handling of window properties.
- Type safe property handling using templates.
- Creation of windows.
- Window event handling.
- Clipboard/selection handling.
- To some extent input device handling, primitive graphic operations and
  colors.

Installing the Library
======================

The SCons based build system only supports a simple installation routine that
is invoked by building the `install` target. The `instroot` setting allows to
specify a custom installation directory. By default files are installed in an
`install` sub directory.

*libX++* depends on libcosmos, which is integrated using a git submodule. Git
submodules can be a bit non-intuitive for people not experienced with them.
For building and installing it is important to clone all submodules together
with *libX++*, like this:

    git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/gerstner-hub/libXpp.git

If you already cloned the repository without the submodule(s) then you can get
them to the correct state this way:

    git submodule update --init

Hints for Library Users
=======================

Regarding building against libX++, the buildsystem features and ABI stability
refer to [libcosmos's README](https://github.com/gerstner-hub/libcosmos/blob/master/README.md).
It's the same for *libX++*.

I guess it is no secret that the libX11 API is not that much fun to work with.
Its documentation is somewhat lacking. The error handling model is special
since there is synchronous and ansychronous error reporting, based on the X
protocol. Many synchronous error returns in libX11 are actually constant and
never report an error. *libX++* cannot really improve these shortcomings.

What *libX++* does add is a more convenient object oriented interface and type
safety for a wide range of the types found in libX11.

Currently *libX++* mostly operates on the default `Screen`, default
`Visual` and the default `Colormap`. To use different instances for any of
them, the API will need to be adjusted in spots, this is not currently fully
possible.

API documentation
-----------------

*libX++* uses Doxygen inline source comments that can either be viewed
as plaintext directly in the headers or can be generated by building `scons
doxygen`, provided you have the Doxygen program installed on your system.

Otherwise you can find the generated HTML version of the API documentation on
the related [GitHub Page](https://gerstner-hub.github.io/libXpp).

Future Directions
=================

I'm not currently planning to extend the library's scope without a specific
need for it, see above.

Contributing
============

Any bugfixes and improvements are welcome as pull requests. Please refer to
[the coding
style](https://github.com/gerstner-hub/libcosmos/blob/master/doc/coding_style.md)
for a rough style guide. Before working on larger changes it might be helpful
to contact me first to reach some common ground regarding the design etc.

By contributing you accept the same licensing conditions as the rest of the
library for your contribution. Your name will be added to an authors list in
the repository.

Commit message:

global: harmonize naming scheme, rename X++ -> xpp
The plusses in the name give us trouble e.g. on GitHub where they cannot
be used in repository names. Furthermore other libraries exist on Linux
that have similar names, one is even libx++ lower-case from the xplane
game.

Thus rename the library and include folder to xpp lower case. This
matches the namespace xpp:: used in the code and thus all identifiers
should be harmonized.

With this also bump the SO version to 0.2.0.

README.md, after:

Introduction
============

This is *libxpp*, a library providing an object oriented C++ API wrapper for
parts of the X11 API. It is intended for low level programming against the X
server on Linux systems.

Design Goals
============

This library aims to provide a thin object oriented wrapper on top of libX11
and some other parts of the X11 client libraries. The library is implemented
using modern C++ features similar to the style found in
[libcosmos](https://github.com/gerstner-hub/libcosmos/), which is also a
dependency of *libxpp*.

Scope
=====

The scope of *libxpp* is currently not well defined. This stems from the fact
that it has only been expanded so far as to enable a few specific applications
and was extracted from [xwmfs](https://github.com/gerstner-hub/xwmfs/) to
make this code reusable. I don't plan to cover all of libX11 just for the fun
of it. If you need a few extra features to make *libxpp* useful for you, I'm
open for pull requests or feature requests for expanding the feature set.

Key Features
============

The library currently supports a variety of different API areas, the most
notable being:

- Handling of window properties.
- Type safe property handling using templates.
- Creation of windows.
- Window event handling.
- Clipboard/selection handling.
- To some extent input device handling, primitive graphic operations and
  colors.

Installing the Library
======================

The SCons based build system only supports a simple installation routine that
is invoked by building the `install` target. The `instroot` setting allows to
specify a custom installation directory. By default files are installed in an
`install` sub directory.

*libxpp* depends on libcosmos, which is integrated using a git submodule. Git
submodules can be a bit non-intuitive for people not experienced with them.
For building and installing it is important to clone all submodules together
with *libxpp*, like this:

    git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/gerstner-hub/libXpp.git

If you already cloned the repository without the submodule(s) then you can get
them to the correct state this way:

    git submodule update --init

Hints for Library Users
=======================

Regarding building against libxpp, the buildsystem features and ABI stability
refer to [libcosmos's README](https://github.com/gerstner-hub/libcosmos/blob/master/README.md).
It's the same for *libxpp*.

I guess it is no secret that the libX11 API is not that much fun to work with.
Its documentation is somewhat lacking. The error handling model is special
since there is synchronous and ansychronous error reporting, based on the X
protocol. Many synchronous error returns in libX11 are actually constant and
never report an error. *libxpp* cannot really improve these shortcomings.

What *libxpp* does add is a more convenient object oriented interface and type
safety for a wide range of the types found in libX11.

Currently *libxpp* mostly operates on the default `Screen`, default
`Visual` and the default `Colormap`. To use different instances for any of
them, the API will need to be adjusted in spots, this is not currently fully
possible.

API documentation
-----------------

*libxpp* uses Doxygen inline source comments that can either be viewed
as plaintext directly in the headers or can be generated by building `scons
doxygen`, provided you have the Doxygen program installed on your system.

Otherwise you can find the generated HTML version of the API documentation on
the related [GitHub Page](https://gerstner-hub.github.io/libXpp).

Future Directions
=================

I'm not currently planning to extend the library's scope without a specific
need for it, see above.

Contributing
============

Any bugfixes and improvements are welcome as pull requests. Please refer to
[the coding
style](https://github.com/gerstner-hub/libcosmos/blob/master/doc/coding_style.md)
for a rough style guide. Before working on larger changes it might be helpful
to contact me first to reach some common ground regarding the design etc.

By contributing you accept the same licensing conditions as the rest of the
library for your contribution. Your name will be added to an authors list in
the repository.
